Day 2- updates based on dry run (#50)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: scRNA-seq/02-tag-based_pre-processing_scRNA-seq.md

return your data to you in this format.
We will start from fastq files.

### Step 1: Get to the scRNA-seq directory

Before you run the command below, you need to make your current directory:
`kitematic/scRNA-seq`.
To do this, use the `Terminal` command-line.
Remember to use `ls` and `cd` to help get you there.

### Step 2: Set up your output directory

Now that we are in `kitematic/scRNA-seq`, we'll make a directory from
for us to store our output data in.

> In `Terminal`, copy, paste, and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `Terminal`, run the following command:
```

> #  -k 23

Reviewer: Should we change the `-i` bit to `-i index/Mus_musculus/short_index` to match the paths the participants will have?

[Alevin tutorials](https://combine-lab.github.io/alevin-tutorial/2018/running-alevin/)
for example analyses.

### Step 5: Prep R for analyzing our Alevin output

To use our Alevin data in R, we will first need to navigate to the R console.

Similar to how we need to be in the `scRNA-seq` directory when we were in
`Terminal`, we need to do the same thing in R now.

First open the R console and use `setwd()` to change to R's working (aka
current) directory to `scRNA-seq`.
Remember that this is where we put our `alevin_output` file.
You can run `dir()` to check if your `alevin_output` folder is in R's current
directory.
Once you are in `scRNA-seq` folder, you can continue to the next steps.

### Step 6: Read Alevin output into R

*In the interest of time, we won't import these data into R, but this is how you'd
do it on your own, in R.*

After we have successfully quantified our tag-based scRNA-seq data, we would
probably want to read it into R to start to analyze it.

Alevin provides count data output for each transcript and cell. To read this
data into R, we would import a function from the script `ReadAlevin.R` which is
located in the `scRNA-seq/scripts` folder.

> This script is based on the COMBINE lab's function in their [tutorial](https://combine-lab.github.io/alevin-tutorial/2018/running-alevin/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script is based on the COMBINE lab's function in their [tutorial](https://combine-lab.github.io/alevin-tutorial/2018/running-alevin/).
```

Note that `alevinQC` depends on files that we get using the`--dumpFeatures`
option in Alevin.

About the `alevinQCReport` function:
The first argument needs to be where the sample's output data was put when
Alevin was run (as a character string, aka using quotes)
In our case, we put our data in `alevin_output` in the current directory we
were in, which was `scRNA-seq`.
The rest of `alevinQCReport`'s arguments tell R where to put the output QC
report also using `characters`.

In R console, copy paste and run this:
```r
# Produce a QC report
alevinQC::alevinQCReport("alevin_output",
                         sampleId = "tab_mur_10X_P4_3_subset",
                         outputFile = "tab_mur_10X_P4_3_subset_qc_report.html",
                         outputDir = "data",
                         outputFormat = "html_document")
```

Check out `data/tab_mur_10X_P4_3_subset_qc_report.html` in order to examine
the quality of your data and performance of Alevin.
Remember that this is only part of this sample, so it won't look as good as if
we had run the full fastq file, which we have provided the alevinQC report of
in your `scRNA-seq/data` directory (or by the link below).

> For the full alevinQC report for P4_3 mouse bladder sample [go here.](https://alexslemonade.github.io/training-modules/scRNA-seq/data/10X_P4_3_qc_report.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full alevinQC report for P4_3 mouse bladder sample can be found [here.](https://alexslemonade.github.io/training-modules/scRNA-seq/data/10X_P4_3_qc_report.html)
```

> For an example of [poor quality sample alevinQC report](https://alexslemonade.github.io/training-modules/scRNA-seq/data/Bad_Example_10X_P4_2_qc_report.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of [poor quality sample alevinQC report](https://alexslemonade.github.io/training-modules/scRNA-seq/data/Bad_Example_10X_P4_2_qc_report.html).
```
